Landing page (#3909)
RadeonOpenCompute/ROCm: docs/how-to/hip_programming_guide.rst

   available, like ``hipMemcpyAsync()``, to overlap data transfer with kernel
   execution. For more information, see :doc:`HIP Programming Manual <hip:how-to/hip_runtime_api/memory_management>`.

#. Memory Management on the GPU: GPU memory accesses can be a performance
   bottleneck if not handled correctly. Use the different GPU memory types
   effectively (e.g., global, shared, constant, and local memory). Shared memory
   is faster than global memory but limited in size. Shared memory is ideal for
   reusing data across threads in a block. Ensure memory accesses are coalesced
   (i.e., threads in a warp access consecutive memory locations), as uncoalesced
   memory access patterns can significantly degrade performance.

#. Synchronize CPU and GPU Workloads: Host (CPU) and device (GPU) execute tasks
   run asynchronously, but proper synchronization is needed to ensure correct
   results. Use synchronization functions like  ``hipDeviceSynchronize()`` or
   ``hipStreamSynchronize()`` to ensure that kernels have completed execution
   before using their results. Take advantage of asynchronous execution to
   overlap data transfers, kernel execution, and CPU tasks where possible.

>    :doc:`ROCProfiler <rocprofiler:index>` and :doc:`ROCTracer <roctracer:index>`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

   available, like ``hipMemcpyAsync()``, to overlap data transfer with kernel
   execution. For more information, see :doc:`HIP Programming Manual <hip:how-to/hip_runtime_api/memory_management>`.

#. Memory Management on the GPU: GPU memory accesses can be a performance
   bottleneck if not handled correctly. Use the different GPU memory types
   effectively (e.g., global, shared, constant, and local memory). Shared memory
   is faster than global memory but limited in size. Shared memory is ideal for
   reusing data across threads in a block. Ensure memory accesses are coalesced
   (i.e., threads in a warp access consecutive memory locations), as uncoalesced
   memory access patterns can significantly degrade performance.

#. Synchronize CPU and GPU Workloads: Host (CPU) and device (GPU) execute tasks
   run asynchronously, but proper synchronization is needed to ensure correct
   results. Use synchronization functions like  ``hipDeviceSynchronize()`` or
   ``hipStreamSynchronize()`` to ensure that kernels have completed execution
   before using their results. Take advantage of asynchronous execution to
   overlap data transfers, kernel execution, and CPU tasks where possible.

>    of the application to achieve optimal performance. For more information, see

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

   available, like ``hipMemcpyAsync()``, to overlap data transfer with kernel
   execution. For more information, see :doc:`HIP Programming Manual <hip:how-to/hip_runtime_api/memory_management>`.

#. Memory Management on the GPU: GPU memory accesses can be a performance
   bottleneck if not handled correctly. Use the different GPU memory types
   effectively (e.g., global, shared, constant, and local memory). Shared memory
   is faster than global memory but limited in size. Shared memory is ideal for
   reusing data across threads in a block. Ensure memory accesses are coalesced
   (i.e., threads in a warp access consecutive memory locations), as uncoalesced
   memory access patterns can significantly degrade performance.

#. Synchronize CPU and GPU Workloads: Host (CPU) and device (GPU) execute tasks
   run asynchronously, but proper synchronization is needed to ensure correct
   results. Use synchronization functions like  ``hipDeviceSynchronize()`` or
   ``hipStreamSynchronize()`` to ensure that kernels have completed execution
   before using their results. Take advantage of asynchronous execution to
   overlap data transfers, kernel execution, and CPU tasks where possible.

>    optimizations. It is essential to test, profile, and fine-tune every aspect

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

   available, like ``hipMemcpyAsync()``, to overlap data transfer with kernel
   execution. For more information, see :doc:`HIP Programming Manual <hip:how-to/hip_runtime_api/memory_management>`.

#. Memory Management on the GPU: GPU memory accesses can be a performance
   bottleneck if not handled correctly. Use the different GPU memory types
   effectively (e.g., global, shared, constant, and local memory). Shared memory
   is faster than global memory but limited in size. Shared memory is ideal for
   reusing data across threads in a block. Ensure memory accesses are coalesced
   (i.e., threads in a warp access consecutive memory locations), as uncoalesced
   memory access patterns can significantly degrade performance.

#. Synchronize CPU and GPU Workloads: Host (CPU) and device (GPU) execute tasks
   run asynchronously, but proper synchronization is needed to ensure correct
   results. Use synchronization functions like  ``hipDeviceSynchronize()`` or
   ``hipStreamSynchronize()`` to ensure that kernels have completed execution
   before using their results. Take advantage of asynchronous execution to
   overlap data transfers, kernel execution, and CPU tasks where possible.

>    requires a balance between high-level architecture design and low-level

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

   available, like ``hipMemcpyAsync()``, to overlap data transfer with kernel
   execution. For more information, see :doc:`HIP Programming Manual <hip:how-to/hip_runtime_api/memory_management>`.

#. Memory Management on the GPU: GPU memory accesses can be a performance
   bottleneck if not handled correctly. Use the different GPU memory types
   effectively (e.g., global, shared, constant, and local memory). Shared memory
   is faster than global memory but limited in size. Shared memory is ideal for
   reusing data across threads in a block. Ensure memory accesses are coalesced
   (i.e., threads in a warp access consecutive memory locations), as uncoalesced
   memory access patterns can significantly degrade performance.

#. Synchronize CPU and GPU Workloads: Host (CPU) and device (GPU) execute tasks
   run asynchronously, but proper synchronization is needed to ensure correct
   results. Use synchronization functions like  ``hipDeviceSynchronize()`` or
   ``hipStreamSynchronize()`` to ensure that kernels have completed execution
   before using their results. Take advantage of asynchronous execution to
   overlap data transfers, kernel execution, and CPU tasks where possible.

>    excessive CPU-GPU synchronization points. Efficient heterogeneous programming

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

   available, like ``hipMemcpyAsync()``, to overlap data transfer with kernel
   execution. For more information, see :doc:`HIP Programming Manual <hip:how-to/hip_runtime_api/memory_management>`.

#. Memory Management on the GPU: GPU memory accesses can be a performance
   bottleneck if not handled correctly. Use the different GPU memory types
   effectively (e.g., global, shared, constant, and local memory). Shared memory
   is faster than global memory but limited in size. Shared memory is ideal for
   reusing data across threads in a block. Ensure memory accesses are coalesced
   (i.e., threads in a warp access consecutive memory locations), as uncoalesced
   memory access patterns can significantly degrade performance.

#. Synchronize CPU and GPU Workloads: Host (CPU) and device (GPU) execute tasks
   run asynchronously, but proper synchronization is needed to ensure correct
   results. Use synchronization functions like  ``hipDeviceSynchronize()`` or
   ``hipStreamSynchronize()`` to ensure that kernels have completed execution
   before using their results. Take advantage of asynchronous execution to
   overlap data transfers, kernel execution, and CPU tasks where possible.

>    the code, such as inefficient kernels, non-coalesced memory accesses, or

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

   available, like ``hipMemcpyAsync()``, to overlap data transfer with kernel
   execution. For more information, see :doc:`HIP Programming Manual <hip:how-to/hip_runtime_api/memory_management>`.

#. Memory Management on the GPU: GPU memory accesses can be a performance
   bottleneck if not handled correctly. Use the different GPU memory types
   effectively (e.g., global, shared, constant, and local memory). Shared memory
   is faster than global memory but limited in size. Shared memory is ideal for
   reusing data across threads in a block. Ensure memory accesses are coalesced
   (i.e., threads in a warp access consecutive memory locations), as uncoalesced
   memory access patterns can significantly degrade performance.

#. Synchronize CPU and GPU Workloads: Host (CPU) and device (GPU) execute tasks
   run asynchronously, but proper synchronization is needed to ensure correct
   results. Use synchronization functions like  ``hipDeviceSynchronize()`` or
   ``hipStreamSynchronize()`` to ensure that kernels have completed execution
   before using their results. Take advantage of asynchronous execution to
   overlap data transfers, kernel execution, and CPU tasks where possible.

>    bandwidth, and data transfer times. Identify and optimize any bottlenecks in

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

   available, like ``hipMemcpyAsync()``, to overlap data transfer with kernel
   execution. For more information, see :doc:`HIP Programming Manual <hip:how-to/hip_runtime_api/memory_management>`.

#. Memory Management on the GPU: GPU memory accesses can be a performance
   bottleneck if not handled correctly. Use the different GPU memory types
   effectively (e.g., global, shared, constant, and local memory). Shared memory
   is faster than global memory but limited in size. Shared memory is ideal for
   reusing data across threads in a block. Ensure memory accesses are coalesced
   (i.e., threads in a warp access consecutive memory locations), as uncoalesced
   memory access patterns can significantly degrade performance.

#. Synchronize CPU and GPU Workloads: Host (CPU) and device (GPU) execute tasks
   run asynchronously, but proper synchronization is needed to ensure correct
   results. Use synchronization functions like  ``hipDeviceSynchronize()`` or
   ``hipStreamSynchronize()`` to ensure that kernels have completed execution
   before using their results. Take advantage of asynchronous execution to
   overlap data transfers, kernel execution, and CPU tasks where possible.

>    **ROCProfiler** and **ROCTracer** to measure kernel execution time, memory

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

   available, like ``hipMemcpyAsync()``, to overlap data transfer with kernel
   execution. For more information, see :doc:`HIP Programming Manual <hip:how-to/hip_runtime_api/memory_management>`.

#. Memory Management on the GPU: GPU memory accesses can be a performance
   bottleneck if not handled correctly. Use the different GPU memory types
   effectively (e.g., global, shared, constant, and local memory). Shared memory
   is faster than global memory but limited in size. Shared memory is ideal for
   reusing data across threads in a block. Ensure memory accesses are coalesced
   (i.e., threads in a warp access consecutive memory locations), as uncoalesced
   memory access patterns can significantly degrade performance.

#. Synchronize CPU and GPU Workloads: Host (CPU) and device (GPU) execute tasks
   run asynchronously, but proper synchronization is needed to ensure correct
   results. Use synchronization functions like  ``hipDeviceSynchronize()`` or
   ``hipStreamSynchronize()`` to ensure that kernels have completed execution
   before using their results. Take advantage of asynchronous execution to
   overlap data transfers, kernel execution, and CPU tasks where possible.

>    requires profiling to identify bottlenecks. Use profiling tools like

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

   available, like ``hipMemcpyAsync()``, to overlap data transfer with kernel
   execution. For more information, see :doc:`HIP Programming Manual <hip:how-to/hip_runtime_api/memory_management>`.

#. Memory Management on the GPU: GPU memory accesses can be a performance
   bottleneck if not handled correctly. Use the different GPU memory types
   effectively (e.g., global, shared, constant, and local memory). Shared memory
   is faster than global memory but limited in size. Shared memory is ideal for
   reusing data across threads in a block. Ensure memory accesses are coalesced
   (i.e., threads in a warp access consecutive memory locations), as uncoalesced
   memory access patterns can significantly degrade performance.

#. Synchronize CPU and GPU Workloads: Host (CPU) and device (GPU) execute tasks
   run asynchronously, but proper synchronization is needed to ensure correct
   results. Use synchronization functions like  ``hipDeviceSynchronize()`` or
   ``hipStreamSynchronize()`` to ensure that kernels have completed execution
   before using their results. Take advantage of asynchronous execution to
   overlap data transfers, kernel execution, and CPU tasks where possible.

> #. Profile and Optimize: Optimizing performance on heterogeneous systems often

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

   requires profiling to identify bottlenecks. Use profiling tools like
   **ROCProfiler** and **ROCTracer** to measure kernel execution time, memory
   bandwidth, and data transfer times. Identify and optimize any bottlenecks in
   the code, such as inefficient kernels, non-coalesced memory accesses, or
   excessive CPU-GPU synchronization points. Efficient heterogeneous programming
   requires a balance between high-level architecture design and low-level
   optimizations. It is essential to test, profile, and fine-tune every aspect
   of the application to achieve optimal performance. For more information, see
   :doc:`ROCProfiler <rocprofiler:index>` and :doc:`ROCTracer <roctracer:index>`.

#. Error Handling: Check for errors after memory transfers

>    and kernel launches, for example ``hipGetLastError()``. For more information,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   and kernel launches, for example ``hipGetLastError()``. Catch and handle errors to allow the application to gracefully exit, with appropriate messaging. For more information,
```

   see `Error Handling <https://rocm.docs.amd.com/projects/HIP/en/latest/how-to/error_handling.html>`_.

#. Multi-GPU and Load Balancing: Large-scale applications that need more compute
   power can use multiple GPUs in the system. This requires distributing
   workloads across multiple GPUs to balance the load to prevent some GPUs from

>    being overutilized while others are idle. Refer to XXX for more information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   being overutilized while others are idle.
```

performance:

#. Understand the Target Architecture (CPU + GPU): CPUs are designed to excel at
   executing a sequence of operations and control logic as fast as possible,
   while GPUs excel at parallel execution of large workloads across many threads.
   You must target specific tasks to the appropriate architecture to optimize
   your application performance. Target computationally intensive,
   parallelizable parts at the GPU, while running control-heavy and sequential
   logic on the CPU. For more information, see :doc:`Hardware Implementation <hip:understand/hardware_implementation>`.

#. Write GPU Kernels for Parallel Execution: Efficient GPU kernels can greatly
   speed up computation by leveraging massive parallelism. Write kernels that
   can take advantage of GPU SIMD (Single Instruction, Multiple Data)
   architecture. Ensure that each thread operates on
   independent memory locations to avoid memory contention. Avoid branching
   (e.g., if-else statements) inside kernels as much as possible, since it can
   lead to divergence, which slows down parallel execution. For more
   information, see :doc:`Programming Model <hip:understand/programming_model>`.

> #. Optimize Thread Hierarchies and Block Sizes: Correctly configuring the threads

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. Optimize Thread Hierarchies and Block Sizes: Correctly configuring the threads in the
```

> #. Optimize Thread Hierarchies and Block Sizes: Correctly configuring the threads in the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. Optimize the Thread and Block Sizes: Correctly configuring the threads in the
```

>    hierarchy (e.g., threads per block, blocks per grid) is crucial for

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   kernel launch configuration (e.g., threads per block, blocks per grid) is crucial for
```

   run asynchronously, but proper synchronization is needed to ensure correct
   results. Use synchronization functions like  ``hipDeviceSynchronize()`` or
   ``hipStreamSynchronize()`` to ensure that kernels have completed execution
   before using their results. Take advantage of asynchronous execution to
   overlap data transfers, kernel execution, and CPU tasks where possible.

#. Profile and Optimize: Optimizing performance on heterogeneous systems often
   requires profiling to identify bottlenecks. Use profiling tools like
   **ROCProfiler** and **ROCTracer** to measure kernel execution time, memory
   bandwidth, and data transfer times. Identify and optimize any bottlenecks in
   the code, such as inefficient kernels, non-coalesced memory accesses, or
   excessive CPU-GPU synchronization points. Efficient heterogeneous programming
   requires a balance between high-level architecture design and low-level
   optimizations. It is essential to test, profile, and fine-tune every aspect
   of the application to achieve optimal performance. For more information, see
   :doc:`ROCProfiler <rocprofiler:index>` and :doc:`ROCTracer <roctracer:index>`.

> #. Error Handling: GPU kernels and memory operations can fail, and these

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. Error Handling: Check for errors after memory transfers
```

>    failures need to be properly handled. Check for errors after memory transfers

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

role in AI and Machine Learning.

Programming in HIP
================================================================================

When programming a heterogeneous application to run on a host CPU and offload
kernels to GPUs, the
following are key steps and considerations to ensure efficient execution and
performance:

#. Understand the Target Architecture (CPU + GPU): CPUs are designed to excel at
   executing a sequence of operations and control logic as fast as possible,
   while GPUs excel at parallel execution of large workloads across many threads.
   You must target specific tasks to the appropriate architecture to optimize
   your application performance. Target computationally intensive,
   parallelizable parts at the GPU, while running control-heavy and sequential
   logic on the CPU. For more information, see :doc:`Hardware Implementation <hip:understand/hardware_implementation>`.

#. Write GPU Kernels for Parallel Execution: Efficient GPU kernels can greatly
   speed up computation by leveraging massive parallelism. Write kernels that
   can take advantage of GPU SIMD (Single Instruction, Multiple Data)

>    architecture. Structure your code so that each thread performs independent

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   architecture. Ensure that each thread operates on
```

>    tasks on different pieces of data. Ensure that each thread operates on

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

programming, and is the key programming language in ROCm. HIP is also designed
to be a marshalling language, allowing code written for NVIDIA's CUDA to be
easily ported to run on AMD GPUs. Developers can use HIP to write kernels that
execute on AMD GPUs while maintaining compatibility with CUDA-based systems.

OpenCL (Open Computing Language) is an open standard for cross-platform,
parallel programming of diverse processors. ROCm supports OpenCL for developers
who want to use standard frameworks across different hardware platforms,
including CPUs, GPUs, and other accelerators. For more information, see `OpenCL <https://www.khronos.org/api/index_2017/opencl>`_.

ROCm/HIP also has python bindings that can be found at https://github.com/ROCm/hip-python.
In modern use cases, Python with TensorFlow and PyTorch is popular due to its
role in AI and Machine Learning.

Programming in HIP
================================================================================

When programming a heterogeneous application to run on a host CPU and offload
kernels to GPUs, the
following are key steps and considerations to ensure efficient execution and
performance:

>    and run applications in a heterogeneous setup. For more information, see :doc:`Install ROCm on Linux <rocm-install-on-linux:index>`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

programming, and is the key programming language in ROCm. HIP is also designed
to be a marshalling language, allowing code written for NVIDIA's CUDA to be
easily ported to run on AMD GPUs. Developers can use HIP to write kernels that
execute on AMD GPUs while maintaining compatibility with CUDA-based systems.

OpenCL (Open Computing Language) is an open standard for cross-platform,
parallel programming of diverse processors. ROCm supports OpenCL for developers
who want to use standard frameworks across different hardware platforms,
including CPUs, GPUs, and other accelerators. For more information, see `OpenCL <https://www.khronos.org/api/index_2017/opencl>`_.

ROCm/HIP also has python bindings that can be found at https://github.com/ROCm/hip-python.
In modern use cases, Python with TensorFlow and PyTorch is popular due to its
role in AI and Machine Learning.

Programming in HIP
================================================================================

When programming a heterogeneous application to run on a host CPU and offload
kernels to GPUs, the
following are key steps and considerations to ensure efficient execution and
performance:

>    appropriate toolchains, libraries, and runtime environments set up to program

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

help developers access the power of AMD GPUs. Currently supported programming
languages include HIP (Heterogeneous-Compute Interface for Portability) and OpenCL,
as well as languages based on wrappers such as Python, and Fortran. 

HIP is an API based on C++ that provides a runtime and libraries for GPU
programming, and is the key programming language in ROCm. HIP is also designed
to be a marshalling language, allowing code written for NVIDIA's CUDA to be
easily ported to run on AMD GPUs. Developers can use HIP to write kernels that
execute on AMD GPUs while maintaining compatibility with CUDA-based systems.

OpenCL (Open Computing Language) is an open standard for cross-platform,
parallel programming of diverse processors. ROCm supports OpenCL for developers
who want to use standard frameworks across different hardware platforms,
including CPUs, GPUs, and other accelerators. For more information, see `OpenCL <https://www.khronos.org/api/index_2017/opencl>`_.

ROCm/HIP also has python bindings that can be found at https://github.com/ROCm/hip-python.
In modern use cases, Python with TensorFlow and PyTorch is popular due to its

> role in AI/ML.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
role in AI and Machine Learning.
```

Programming in HIP
================================================================================

When programming a heterogeneous application to run on a host CPU and offload

> kernels to GPUs, especially within a framework like ROCm or using HIP, the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
kernels to GPUs, the
```

following are key steps and considerations to ensure efficient execution and
performance:

> #. Install ROCm and HIP and setup the development environment: Get the

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

help developers access the power of AMD GPUs. Currently supported programming
languages include HIP (Heterogeneous-Compute Interface for Portability) and OpenCL,
as well as languages based on wrappers such as Python, and Fortran. 

HIP is an API based on C++ that provides a runtime and libraries for GPU
programming, and is the key programming language in ROCm. HIP is also designed
to be a marshalling language, allowing code written for NVIDIA's CUDA to be
easily ported to run on AMD GPUs. Developers can use HIP to write kernels that
execute on AMD GPUs while maintaining compatibility with CUDA-based systems.

OpenCL (Open Computing Language) is an open standard for cross-platform,
parallel programming of diverse processors. ROCm supports OpenCL for developers
who want to use standard frameworks across different hardware platforms,
including CPUs, GPUs, and other accelerators. For more information, see `OpenCL <https://www.khronos.org/api/index_2017/opencl>`_.

ROCm/HIP also has python bindings that can be found at https://github.com/ROCm/hip-python.
In modern use cases, Python with TensorFlow and PyTorch is popular due to its
role in AI/ML.

> scientific and engineering domains.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

> role in AI/ML, but HIP and C++ are vital for performance-focused applications in

Reviewer: ```suggestion
role in AI/ML.
```

and AMD GPUs. ROCm supports a variety of programming languages and frameworks to
help developers access the power of AMD GPUs. Currently supported programming
languages include HIP (Heterogeneous-Compute Interface for Portability) and OpenCL,
as well as languages based on wrappers such as Python, and Fortran. 

HIP is an API based on C++ that provides a runtime and libraries for GPU
programming, and is the key programming language in ROCm. HIP is also designed
to be a marshalling language, allowing code written for NVIDIA's CUDA to be
easily ported to run on AMD GPUs. Developers can use HIP to write kernels that
execute on AMD GPUs while maintaining compatibility with CUDA-based systems.

OpenCL (Open Computing Language) is an open standard for cross-platform,
parallel programming of diverse processors. ROCm supports OpenCL for developers
who want to use standard frameworks across different hardware platforms,
including CPUs, GPUs, and other accelerators. For more information, see `OpenCL <https://www.khronos.org/api/index_2017/opencl>`_.

ROCm/HIP also has python bindings that can be found at https://github.com/ROCm/hip-python.

> under the hood, abstracting much of the complexity of parallel GPU programming.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

and AMD GPUs. ROCm supports a variety of programming languages and frameworks to
help developers access the power of AMD GPUs. Currently supported programming
languages include HIP (Heterogeneous-Compute Interface for Portability) and OpenCL,
as well as languages based on wrappers such as Python, and Fortran. 

HIP is an API based on C++ that provides a runtime and libraries for GPU
programming, and is the key programming language in ROCm. HIP is also designed
to be a marshalling language, allowing code written for NVIDIA's CUDA to be
easily ported to run on AMD GPUs. Developers can use HIP to write kernels that
execute on AMD GPUs while maintaining compatibility with CUDA-based systems.

OpenCL (Open Computing Language) is an open standard for cross-platform,
parallel programming of diverse processors. ROCm supports OpenCL for developers
who want to use standard frameworks across different hardware platforms,
including CPUs, GPUs, and other accelerators. For more information, see `OpenCL <https://www.khronos.org/api/index_2017/opencl>`_.

ROCm/HIP also has python bindings that can be found at https://github.com/ROCm/hip-python.

> learning. Developers can write Python code that calls GPU-accelerated libraries

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

and AMD GPUs. ROCm supports a variety of programming languages and frameworks to
help developers access the power of AMD GPUs. Currently supported programming
languages include HIP (Heterogeneous-Compute Interface for Portability) and OpenCL,
as well as languages based on wrappers such as Python, and Fortran. 

HIP is an API based on C++ that provides a runtime and libraries for GPU
programming, and is the key programming language in ROCm. HIP is also designed
to be a marshalling language, allowing code written for NVIDIA's CUDA to be
easily ported to run on AMD GPUs. Developers can use HIP to write kernels that
execute on AMD GPUs while maintaining compatibility with CUDA-based systems.

OpenCL (Open Computing Language) is an open standard for cross-platform,
parallel programming of diverse processors. ROCm supports OpenCL for developers
who want to use standard frameworks across different hardware platforms,
including CPUs, GPUs, and other accelerators. For more information, see `OpenCL <https://www.khronos.org/api/index_2017/opencl>`_.

ROCm/HIP also has python bindings that can be found at https://github.com/ROCm/hip-python.

> learning libraries. Python is extensively used in data science, AI, and deep

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

and AMD GPUs. ROCm supports a variety of programming languages and frameworks to
help developers access the power of AMD GPUs. Currently supported programming
languages include HIP (Heterogeneous-Compute Interface for Portability) and OpenCL,
as well as languages based on wrappers such as Python, and Fortran. 

HIP is an API based on C++ that provides a runtime and libraries for GPU
programming, and is the key programming language in ROCm. HIP is also designed
to be a marshalling language, allowing code written for NVIDIA's CUDA to be
easily ported to run on AMD GPUs. Developers can use HIP to write kernels that
execute on AMD GPUs while maintaining compatibility with CUDA-based systems.

OpenCL (Open Computing Language) is an open standard for cross-platform,
parallel programming of diverse processors. ROCm supports OpenCL for developers
who want to use standard frameworks across different hardware platforms,
including CPUs, GPUs, and other accelerators. For more information, see `OpenCL <https://www.khronos.org/api/index_2017/opencl>`_.

ROCm/HIP also has python bindings that can be found at https://github.com/ROCm/hip-python.

> acceleration. The ROCm ecosystem includes tools like ROCm MIOpen for deep

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

ROCm provides a robust environment for heterogeneous programs running on CPUs
and AMD GPUs. ROCm supports a variety of programming languages and frameworks to
help developers access the power of AMD GPUs. Currently supported programming
languages include HIP (Heterogeneous-Compute Interface for Portability) and OpenCL,
as well as languages based on wrappers such as Python, and Fortran. 

HIP is an API based on C++ that provides a runtime and libraries for GPU
programming, and is the key programming language in ROCm. HIP is also designed
to be a marshalling language, allowing code written for NVIDIA's CUDA to be
easily ported to run on AMD GPUs. Developers can use HIP to write kernels that
execute on AMD GPUs while maintaining compatibility with CUDA-based systems.

OpenCL (Open Computing Language) is an open standard for cross-platform,
parallel programming of diverse processors. ROCm supports OpenCL for developers
who want to use standard frameworks across different hardware platforms,
including CPUs, GPUs, and other accelerators. For more information, see `OpenCL <https://www.khronos.org/api/index_2017/opencl>`_.

> ROCm also supports Python through various machine learning frameworks and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ROCm/HIP also has python bindings that can be found at https://github.com/ROCm/hip-python.
```

> libraries like TensorFlow and PyTorch, which can leverage ROCm's GPU

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

********************************************************************************
HIP programming guide
********************************************************************************

ROCm provides a robust environment for heterogeneous programs running on CPUs
and AMD GPUs. ROCm supports a variety of programming languages and frameworks to
help developers access the power of AMD GPUs. Currently supported programming
languages include HIP (Heterogeneous-Compute Interface for Portability) and OpenCL,
as well as languages based on wrappers such as Python, and Fortran. 

HIP is an API based on C++ that provides a runtime and libraries for GPU
programming, and is the key programming language in ROCm. HIP is also designed
to be a marshalling language, allowing code written for NVIDIA's CUDA to be
easily ported to run on AMD GPUs. Developers can use HIP to write kernels that
execute on AMD GPUs while maintaining compatibility with CUDA-based systems.

OpenCL (Open Computing Language) is an open standard for cross-platform,
parallel programming of diverse processors. ROCm supports OpenCL for developers
who want to use standard frameworks across different hardware platforms,

> including CPUs, GPUs, and other accelerators. Refer to XXX for more information

Reviewer: ```suggestion
including CPUs, GPUs, and other accelerators. For more information, see `OpenCL <https://www.khronos.org/api/index_2017/opencl>`_.
```

> on OpenCL. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

.. meta::
    :description: HIP programming guide

>     :keywords: CU, CUs, number of CUs, compute units

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    :keywords: HIP, heterogeneous programming, ROCm API, AMD GPU programming
```

.. _hip-programming-guide:

********************************************************************************
HIP programming guide
********************************************************************************

ROCm provides a robust environment for heterogeneous programs running on CPUs
and AMD GPUs. ROCm supports a variety of programming languages and frameworks to

> help developers utilize the power of AMD GPUs. Currently supported programming

Reviewer: ```suggestion
help developers access the power of AMD GPUs. Currently supported programming
```

> languages include HIP (Heterogeneous-Compute Interface for Portability), OpenCL,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
languages include HIP (Heterogeneous-Compute Interface for Portability) and OpenCL,
```

> Python, C++, as well as others. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
as well as languages based on wrappers such as Python, and Fortran. 
```

> HIP is a C++-like language that provides a runtime, library APIs for GPU

Reviewer: ```suggestion
HIP is an API based on C++ that provides a runtime and libraries for GPU
```

programming, and is the key programming language in ROCm. HIP is also designed
to be a marshalling language, allowing code written for NVIDIA's CUDA to be
easily ported to run on AMD GPUs. Developers can use HIP to write kernels that

> execute on AMD GPUs while maintaining compatibility with CUDA-based systems

Reviewer: ```suggestion
execute on AMD GPUs while maintaining compatibility with CUDA-based systems.
```

> through minor modifications.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

who want to use standard frameworks across different hardware platforms,
including CPUs, GPUs, and other accelerators. Refer to XXX for more information
on OpenCL. 

ROCm also supports Python through various machine learning frameworks and
libraries like TensorFlow and PyTorch, which can leverage ROCm's GPU
acceleration. The ROCm ecosystem includes tools like ROCm MIOpen for deep
learning libraries. Python is extensively used in data science, AI, and deep
learning. Developers can write Python code that calls GPU-accelerated libraries
under the hood, abstracting much of the complexity of parallel GPU programming.
In modern use cases, Python with TensorFlow and PyTorch is popular due to its
role in AI/ML, but HIP and C++ are vital for performance-focused applications in
scientific and engineering domains.

Programming in HIP
================================================================================

When programming a heterogeneous application to run on a host CPU and offload
kernels to GPUs, especially within a framework like ROCm or using HIP, the
following are key steps and considerations to ensure efficient execution and

> performance:

Reviewer: Based on Leo's feedback we should keep the list of key concepts, and link to the associated content as it becomes available.

#. Install ROCm and HIP and setup the development environment: Get the
   appropriate toolchains, libraries, and runtime environments set up to program
   and run applications in a heterogeneous setup. For more information, see :doc:`Install ROCm on Linux <rocm-install-on-linux:index>`.

#. Understand the Target Architecture (CPU + GPU): CPUs are designed to excel at
   executing a sequence of operations and control logic as fast as possible,
   while GPUs excel at parallel execution of large workloads across many threads.

>    You must target specific tasks to the appropriate architecture to optimize

Reviewer: I think the comparison of GPU and CPU is appropriate to the concept. The referenced topic focuses on GPU.

.. meta::
    :description: HIP programming guide

>     :keywords: HIP, heterogeneous programming, ROCm API, AMD GPU programming

Author: Updated.

.. _hip-programming-guide:

********************************************************************************
HIP programming guide

> ********************************************************************************

Reviewer 2: This currently is not specifically a "HIP" programming guide, and also doesn't link to the HIP programming guide, but just the index of the HIP documentation.

Author: Updated?

ROCm provides a robust environment for heterogeneous programs running on CPUs
and AMD GPUs. ROCm supports a variety of programming languages and frameworks to
help developers access the power of AMD GPUs. Currently supported programming

> languages include HIP (Heterogeneous-Compute Interface for Portability) and OpenCL,

Author: Updated.

> as well as languages based on wrappers such as Python, and Fortran. 

Author: Updated.

HIP is an API based on C++ that provides a runtime and libraries for GPU
programming, and is the key programming language in ROCm. HIP is also designed
to be a marshalling language, allowing code written for NVIDIA's CUDA to be
easily ported to run on AMD GPUs. Developers can use HIP to write kernels that
execute on AMD GPUs while maintaining compatibility with CUDA-based systems.

OpenCL (Open Computing Language) is an open standard for cross-platform,
parallel programming of diverse processors. ROCm supports OpenCL for developers
who want to use standard frameworks across different hardware platforms,

> including CPUs, GPUs, and other accelerators. For more information, see `OpenCL <https://www.khronos.org/api/index_2017/opencl>`_.

Reviewer 2: The linked page here is the same as https://www.khronos.org/opencl/ but I guess the latter is more stable

Author: Updated.

> ROCm/HIP also has python bindings that can be found at https://github.com/ROCm/hip-python.
> In modern use cases, Python with TensorFlow and PyTorch is popular due to its
> role in AI and Machine Learning.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Python bindings that can be found at https://github.com/ROCm/hip-python.
Python is popular in AI and machine learning applications due to available frameworks like TensorFlow and PyTorch.
```

> 

Reviewer 2: This is missing a paragraph linking to https://github.com/ROCm/hipfort

Author: Added.

.. meta::
    :description: HIP programming guide
    :keywords: CU, CUs, number of CUs, compute units

.. _hip-programming-guide:

********************************************************************************
HIP programming guide
********************************************************************************

> The programming guide sections are the following:

Reviewer: I thought we discussed a bit more in the Intro here? Or was this something I was supposed to write?

Author: I did not manage to add the text there yet.
